README.md, before:

# Availity JavaScript SDK

> JavaScript SDK for designed for the Availity Portal

[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/availity/sdk-js/Publish%20Release?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Availity/sdk-js/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Availity/sdk-js?style=for-the-badge)](https://codecov.io/gh/Availity/sdk-js)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=MIT)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Documentation

Docs for each of the packages deployed in [sdk-js](https://github.com/Availity/sdk-js) can be found at [https://availity.github.io/](https://availity.github.io/sdk-js/)

## Supported Browsers

Packages in this repository are designed to work with the following browsers

- Google Chrome
- Microsoft Edge
- Mozilla Firefox

### Internet Explorer Support

Active support for Internet Explorer was dropped in August 2021. Some packages use `core-js` and `babel` to polyfill unsupported features, but this will be phased out over time.

If you still need support for IE 11, you need to either:

- Use [`@availity/workflow >=8.5.0 && <9.0.0`](https://github.com/Availity/availity-workflow/blob/master/packages/workflow/CHANGELOG.md#850-2021-04-07). This will transpile _all_ your code and add polyfills needed for IE 11 support.
- If you are not using `@availity/workflow`, or cannot upgrade to at least `8.5.0`, then you will need to import the package's compiled code from its `/lib` folder.

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing guide](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information on how to contribute.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

build!: switch from lerna to nx and compile to esm with tsup
BREAKING CHANGE: Drop Internet Explorer support

README.md, after:

# Availity JavaScript SDK

> JavaScript SDK for designed for the Availity Portal

[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/availity/sdk-js/Publish%20Release?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Availity/sdk-js/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/Availity/sdk-js?style=for-the-badge)](https://codecov.io/gh/Availity/sdk-js)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=MIT)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Documentation

Docs for each of the packages deployed in [sdk-js](https://github.com/Availity/sdk-js) can be found at [https://availity.github.io/](https://availity.github.io/sdk-js/)

## Supported Browsers

Packages in this repository are designed to work with the following browsers

- Google Chrome
- Microsoft Edge
- Mozilla Firefox

### Internet Explorer Support

Active support for Internet Explorer was dropped in August 2021. As of 04/2021 we no longer output CommonJS and instead output ESM. We also do not provide any polyfills. These will need to be configured in your own environment.

You must use an older version of the package if you still need support for IE 11.

TODO: get list of ie supported versions

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing guide](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information on how to contribute.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
