docusaurus/docs/api/uploads.md, before:

---
title: Uploads
---

Wrapper for tus-js-client

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@availity/upload-core.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@availity/upload-core)

## Install

### NPM

```bash
$ npm install @availity/upload-core tus-js-client
```

### Yarn

```bash
$ yarn add @availity/upload-core tus-js-client
```

## Usage

### Required params

-   bucketId
-   customerId
-   clientId

### Optional params

-   fileTypes: string array of file extensions to allow (error thrown if file.name does not contain one of the types)
-   maxSize: maximum size allowed per file
-   metadata: object mapping metadata keys and values to add to the TUS upload
-   allowedFileNameCharacters: restrict the file name characters to a regex set
-   pollingTime: custom av scan polling time (default 5000ms)

```js
import Upload from '@availity/upload-core';

const upload = new Upload(file, {
    bucketId: 'a',
    customerId: 'b',
    clientId: 'c',
    fileTypes: ['.png', '.pdf'],
    maxSize: 3e8,
    metadata: { key: 'value' },
    allowedFileNameCharacters: '_a-zA-Z0-9 ', // alphanumeric, spaces, underscore
    pollingTime: 1000,
});
upload.start();
```

Commit message:

feat(upload-core): fixed prop to this.  Added a test and fixed another test..

docusaurus/docs/api/uploads.md, after:

---
title: Uploads
---

Wrapper for tus-js-client

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@availity/upload-core.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@availity/upload-core)

## Install

### NPM

```bash
$ npm install @availity/upload-core tus-js-client
```

### Yarn

```bash
$ yarn add @availity/upload-core tus-js-client
```

## Usage

### Required params

-   bucketId
-   customerId
-   clientId

### Optional params

-   fileTypes: string array of file extensions to allow (error thrown if file.name does not contain one of the types)
-   maxSize: maximum size allowed per file
-   metadata: object mapping metadata keys and values to add to the TUS upload
-   allowedFileNameCharacters: restrict the file name characters to a regex set
-   pollingTime: custom av scan polling time (default 5000ms)

### Upload object variables that can be set before call to start().
**Each one of these should be an array of functions**

- **onPreStart**: each function should return a boolean.  If false, upload-core will not make xhr request.
- **onProgress**: occurs during initial and at various points of the Xhr call to backend. 
- **onSuccess**: each function is called once if there is a success.
- **onError**: each function is called once if there is an error.

```js
import Upload from '@availity/upload-core';

const upload = new Upload(file, {
    bucketId: 'a',
    customerId: 'b',
    clientId: 'c',
    fileTypes: ['.png', '.pdf'],
    maxSize: 3e8,
    metadata: { key: 'value' },
    allowedFileNameCharacters: '_a-zA-Z0-9 ', // alphanumeric, spaces, underscore
    pollingTime: 1000,
});
upload.start();
```
