docusaurus/docs/resources/yup.md, before:

---
title: Yup Extensions
---

Method extensions for the [yup](https://github.com/jquense/yup)

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@availity/yup.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@availity/yup)

## Install

### NPM

```bash
npm install @availity/yup yup
```

### Yarn

```bash
yarn add @availity/yup yup
```

## Usage

Import the package in the root of your project somewhere and you will have access to all of the provided yup methods.

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().isRequired(true, 'This field is required.');

schema.isValid('12-12-2012');
```

If you want to utilize the custom date validators you need to import them directly:

```js
import { avDate, dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const dateSchema = avDate();
const dateRangeSchema = dateRange({
  startKey: 'helloDate',
  endKey: 'worldDate',
}).between('12/10/2012', '12/13/2012');

dateSchema.isValid('12-12-2012');
dateRangeSchema.isValid({
  helloDate: '12/11/2012',
  worldDate: '12/12/2012',
});
```

## Table of Contents

- [isRequired](#isrequired-stringarraynumberobject)
- [npi](#npi-string)
- [phone](#phone-stringnumber)
- [dateRange](#daterange)
- [avDate](#avdate)

## Methods

---

### isRequired [**String**,**Array**,**Number**,**Object**]

#### Parameters

- **required** - `boolean`. Optional. Whether or not the given string is required. Default: `true`
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This Field is Required.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

yup.string().isRequired();
yup.string().isRequired(true, 'Custom Error Message');
yup.number().isRequired();
yup.array().isRequired();
yup.object().isRequired();
```

### npi [**String**]

#### Parameters

- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This field is invalid.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().npi();
```

### phone [**String**,**Number**]

Validates a phone number. Must be 10 digits without country code, can be formatted when using string schema.

#### Parameters

- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This field is invalid.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().phone();

schema.isValid('(444) 444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('+1 (444) 444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('444-444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('+1 444-444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('444.444.4444'); // true
schema.isValid('(444) 444 4444'); // true

const schema = yup.number.phone();

schema.isValid('4444444444'); // true
schema.isValid('444 444 4444'); // true
schema.isValid('44444444445'); // false
schema.isValid('+14444444444'); // false
```

## Additional Schemas

---

## **dateRange**

Evaluates a date range object.

### Parameters

- **options** - `object`. optional. Range Options.
  - **format** - `string`. optional. The format to parse the dates with.
  - **startKey** - `string`. optional. The key for the start date. Default: `startDate`
  - **endKey** - `string`. optional. The key for the end date. Default: `endDate`
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range is invalid."

### Example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const dateRangeSchema = dateRange({
  startKey: 'helloDate',
  endKey: 'worldDate',
}).between('12/10/2012', '12/13/2012');

dateRangeSchema.isValid({
  helloDate: '12/11/2012',
  worldDate: '12/12/2012',
});
```

### **methods**

### between

Accepts range of dates the date range can fall between.

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must be between XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX."

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().between('12/01/2012', '12/10/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### min

Accepts date the date range must start after.

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must start after XX/XX/XXXX"

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().min('12/01/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### max

Accepts date, the date range must start before.

#### parameters

- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must start before XX/XX/XXXX"

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().max('12/10/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### distance

Evaluates if date range is within a set distance

#### parameters

- **options** - `object`. **required**. distance options.
  - **min** - `object`. optional. The minimum distance between the date ranges
    - **value** - `number`. **required**. the value of the minimum distance
    - **units** - `string`. optional. the weight of the value. default `day`
  - **max** - `object`. optional. The maximum distance between the date ranges
    - **value** - `number`. **required**. the value of the max distance
    - **units** - `string`. optional. the weight of the value. default `day`
  - **format** - `string`. optional. custom parse format for date validation

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().distance({
  min: {
    value: 3,
    units: 'day',
  },
});

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

## **avDate**

Similar to the default date yup object and accepts a string or `moment` object instead. See [Date](https://github.com/jquense/yup#date) for `min` and `max`

### **Methods**

### between

Takes an object of dates the given date must fall between

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date must be between XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX."

#### example

```js
import { avDate } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = avDate().between('12/01/2012', '12/10/2012');

schema.isValid('12/02/2012'); // valid
```

Commit message:

docs(yup): update docs for dateRange custom type error message

docusaurus/docs/resources/yup.md, after:

---
title: Yup Extensions
---

Method extensions for the [yup](https://github.com/jquense/yup)

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@availity/yup.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@availity/yup)

## Install

### NPM

```bash
npm install @availity/yup yup
```

### Yarn

```bash
yarn add @availity/yup yup
```

## Usage

Import the package in the root of your project somewhere and you will have access to all of the provided yup methods.

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().isRequired(true, 'This field is required.');

schema.isValid('12-12-2012');
```

If you want to utilize the custom date validators you need to import them directly:

```js
import { avDate, dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const dateSchema = avDate();
const dateRangeSchema = dateRange({
  startKey: 'helloDate',
  endKey: 'worldDate',
}).between('12/10/2012', '12/13/2012');

dateSchema.isValid('12-12-2012');
dateRangeSchema.isValid({
  helloDate: '12/11/2012',
  worldDate: '12/12/2012',
});
```

## Table of Contents

- [isRequired](#isrequired-stringarraynumberobject)
- [npi](#npi-string)
- [phone](#phone-stringnumber)
- [dateRange](#daterange)
- [avDate](#avdate)

## Methods

---

### isRequired [**String**,**Array**,**Number**,**Object**]

#### Parameters

- **required** - `boolean`. Optional. Whether or not the given string is required. Default: `true`
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This Field is Required.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

yup.string().isRequired();
yup.string().isRequired(true, 'Custom Error Message');
yup.number().isRequired();
yup.array().isRequired();
yup.object().isRequired();
```

### npi [**String**]

#### Parameters

- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This field is invalid.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().npi();
```

### phone [**String**,**Number**]

Validates a phone number. Must be 10 digits without country code, can be formatted when using string schema.

#### Parameters

- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: `This field is invalid.`

#### Example

```js
import '@availity/yup';
import * as yup from 'yup';

const schema = yup.string().phone();

schema.isValid('(444) 444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('+1 (444) 444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('444-444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('+1 444-444-4444'); // true
schema.isValid('444.444.4444'); // true
schema.isValid('(444) 444 4444'); // true

const schema = yup.number.phone();

schema.isValid('4444444444'); // true
schema.isValid('444 444 4444'); // true
schema.isValid('44444444445'); // false
schema.isValid('+14444444444'); // false
```

## Additional Schemas

---

## **dateRange**

Evaluates a date range object.

### Parameters

- **options** - `object`. optional. Range Options.
  - **format** - `string`. optional. The format to parse the dates with.
  - **startKey** - `string`. optional. The key for the start date. Default: `startDate`
  - **endKey** - `string`. optional. The key for the end date. Default: `endDate`
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range is invalid."

### Example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const dateRangeSchema = dateRange({
  startKey: 'helloDate',
  endKey: 'worldDate',
}).between('12/10/2012', '12/13/2012');

dateRangeSchema.isValid({
  helloDate: '12/11/2012',
  worldDate: '12/12/2012',
});
```

### **methods**

### between

Accepts range of dates the date range can fall between.

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must be between XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX."

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().between('12/01/2012', '12/10/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### min

Accepts date the date range must start after.

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must start after XX/XX/XXXX"

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().min('12/01/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### max

Accepts date, the date range must start before.

#### parameters

- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date Range must start before XX/XX/XXXX"

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().max('12/10/2012');

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### distance

Evaluates if date range is within a set distance

#### parameters

- **options** - `object`. **required**. distance options.
  - **min** - `object`. optional. The minimum distance between the date ranges
    - **value** - `number`. **required**. the value of the minimum distance
    - **units** - `string`. optional. the weight of the value. default `day`
  - **max** - `object`. optional. The maximum distance between the date ranges
    - **value** - `number`. **required**. the value of the max distance
    - **units** - `string`. optional. the weight of the value. default `day`
  - **format** - `string`. optional. custom parse format for date validation

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange().distance({
  min: {
    value: 3,
    units: 'day',
  },
});

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '12/02/2012',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // valid
```

### typeError

Sets a custom error message for invalid date ranges to override the 'Start and End Date are required.' default when only one of the start or end date is falsy. Useful when combined with @availity/date Date Range react component that rejects invalid dates.

#### parameters
- **options** - `object`. typeError options.
  - **message** - `object`. optional. The custom error message to display 

#### example

```js
import { dateRange } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = dateRange()
});

schema.isValid({
  startDate: '',
  endDate: '12/03/2012',
}); // throws 'Start and End Date are required.'

const customErrSchema = dateRange().typeError({message: 'Custom error message'})

customErrSchema.isValid({
  startDate: '',
  endDate: '12/03/2012'
}); // throws 'Custom error message'
```

## **avDate**

Similar to the default date yup object and accepts a string or `moment` object instead. See [Date](https://github.com/jquense/yup#date) for `min` and `max`

### **Methods**

### between

Takes an object of dates the given date must fall between

#### parameters

- **minDate** - `string`. **required**. The minimum date.
- **maxDate** - `string`. **required**. The max date.
- **message** - `string`. Optional. Custom error message when invalid. Default: "Date must be between XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX."

#### example

```js
import { avDate } from '@availity/yup';

const schema = avDate().between('12/01/2012', '12/10/2012');

schema.isValid('12/02/2012'); // valid
```
